[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SUE MORTER: According
to quantum physics,
we know that multiple
possibilities
can exist simultaneously.
What could that mean
for us in the present
when faced with illness
that could either
result in tragedy or recovery?
Is it possible that
our consciousness
can time travel into
the future and see
and to experience the
best possible outcome?
Joining us today is
Dr. Julia Mossbridge.
She's a visiting scholar
at Northwestern University,
and she's here to discuss
how practical time travel may
be the key to radical healing.
Welcome, Dr. Mossbridge.
Tell us, how did
you first become
interested in of all
things time travel?
>>JULIA MOSSBRIDGE: Well,
it's a very personal story.
I would lie in bed
for hours after I
had been put to bed as a child.
The reason I was
thinking about it
was because of a forgotten
period of abuse right
before I went to bed.
And I would lie in bed and
there was this woman who would
in my mind's eye I
would imagine was
sending me loving energy from
a chair right next to the bed.
And when I grew up,
and was in my 40s,
and started playing around
with mental time travel,
I realized that woman
was me in my 40s,
because I would habitually go
back and send that young girl
who was being abused--
I would send her love.
And so that's
really why I started
getting interested in it
because that experience of being
loved as a child when difficult
things were going on saved me.
>>SUE: There's so much
to dig into with this.
I know our viewers are
fascinated about the ideas.
And so tell us what happened
that allowed you to realize
that that was you from a future
state here now speaking to you
as a child?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: I guess the story
is, I have a scientific mind.
And so when I would have
precognitive dreams as a child,
I would think, well,
maybe I misremembered it.
So I'd write it
down in a journal.
And I would check, no, I
really did dream about that.
Or no, I didn't.
I did make it up--
and just started looking
at that and getting
more and more interested
in how the mind works,
how the brain works.
And then when I went to
college and later graduate
school in neuroscience and
then later in psycho-acoustics,
the psychology of
sound perception,
I got really interested
in time and timing,
because I think of this
root experience of time
being out of order.
And then in my 40s,
when I was doing work,
as one does in one's 40s,
one tends to go back and say,
what happened in my childhood?
What are those problems that
I'm sort of unconscious of?
And when I was noticing
that in therapy,
I always talked about
this sort of presence.
And I described her
once to a therapist,
and I realized that I
was describing myself
in my present moment
and the exercise
of going back and sending love.
So it was a journey
both intellectual,
because that's my nature,
but also emotional,
because that's also my nature.
>>SUE: Can we go back
just for a moment
to your childhood,
the 40-year-old self,
the unconditional love?
Can you just speak about, again,
how did she know what she knew
and just kind of tap into
that again for everyone?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah.
So let's see, which she?
The childhood self or both?
>>SUE: Yes.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Kind of both, OK.
>>SUE: All of the above.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: The
childhood self perhaps
knew what she knew and could
survive that difficult period
because of getting information
from her future self, who
was sitting in
that rocking chair
every night giving her love.
And the future self knew to
go back and have the conscious
meditation of sitting
in that rocking chair,
giving the seven-,
and eight-, and nine-,
and 10-year-old love
because it happened.
So it's this loop.
There's no way to
really prove causality
in any particular direction.
So this loop idea is
pretty consistent with what
we know about reality.
>>SUE: So as this
presence was there
for the younger
version of the self,
the presence of unconditional
love is really there.
It's like when we go back
into our own childhood
from this moment now
and say, bless you.
You were doing the
best that you could.
This was exactly perfect.
There was nothing
else you needed
to be doing any differently--
and know and accept that.
And as we tell that childhood
version of ourselves that,
it allows the energy, the
whole recipe, to shift.
And then this
experience rolls out,
and we are now a healed version
of that child that perhaps
wasn't ever able to heal
until we went back and gave it
permission to accept
themselves just as they were.
Now us in the present
moment is walking along
with a healed version of our
inner child, so to speak,
that perhaps was never allowed
to be healed until we gave it
permission.
Is this in accordance--
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Or did heal
because we gave it permission.
And it's sort of this
difference between changing
and influencing.
So I healed because of my
future self being there.
Maybe there wasn't ever a
time when I wasn't healed.
>>SUE: Right.
So we know that reality
is a quantum world.
It's a quantum realm.
And we've been trying to study
it in a linear fashion, which
is why it makes sense
in the biggest picture
that we could have
access to something
in the future,
something in the past.
What we want to do today is
just break this down and make it
super user-friendly
for people because I
know that our viewers have
been in similar situations.
I know that lots of times
people have had experiences
that they had a precognition, or
this hunch, or this intuition.
And what we'd love to do is
break it down and make it not
be science fiction but to allow
it to be supported by science,
because we live in a culture
that wants the science.
So how can we make the
distinction between science
and science fiction?
And how can people
start to feel solid
in some of these experiences
that are happening for them?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: One
thing that I'm very
passionate about is
helping people get it
that their experiences are real.
So I don't need anyone to
prove to me that that was me
in the chair
because there wasn't
a person in that chair
in the physical world.
It was an experience
I was having.
So I know that I
had that experience.
And later I know I
have the experience
that that's me in the
chair, and that's allowed.
So we've gotten into
a worldview that
says that if it's not
the couch, it's not real.
We're not sure about the
reality of our own experience,
but we're sure about the couch,
which is exactly the opposite.
We totally infer that
the couch exists,
but we do know that
we have experience.
And so I think it's,
first, really important
to get it that your
experiences matter
and they're real, as
real as the couch,
probably more real
than the couch.
>>SUE: I think that
is so valuable.
Can you say it again?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Sure.
So the number-one thing
we know-- and this
is even true for the most
conservative scientist
if they think about
it carefully--
the number one
thing that you know
is that you have experience.
Actually, let me
back up from that.
Experience is happening.
You might be unclear
whether there's a you,
but experience is happening.
>>SUE: And people
are noticing it.
They feel it.
No one can take
it away from them.
This is my personal experience.
I know I know I know.
And that's something that is
so, so very valid and becoming
a valid conversation even
in scientific realms.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Right.
So there's that is really true.
And if we can hold onto
that without saying,
therefore, the couch
doesn't exist--
so it's hard for people
to hold on to both.
But I think that it is really
the case that our experience is
real, and there's some kind
of third-person agreement
that the couch exists.
>>SUE: Agreed-upon reality here.
We both agree we're
sitting on a couch.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah,
right, exactly.
And if you can grasp
the both of those
and say they're
both true, then I
think that you're in
total action for being
able to do science, because
science is all about trying
to explain our
experience of what
happens with this
third-party agreement
of the physical reality.
>>SUE: And to generate
our reality and our life
experience, which is ultimately,
on the healing matrix, what
we want to do is
uncover every single way
that we can get
to radical healing
that people can recognize
that they have the capacity
to do this in ways
that perhaps we haven't
been taught in the past.
And it's time for
us to know this.
And I know that
you've done research
in physics, and psychology,
and biology, physiology,
leading down this
path to scientificate
this possibility that we
initially were speaking
about-- time travel.
So can we speak a little
bit about time travel
in terms of these
things that you've
studied to make it super
clear for our viewers?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah, so
time travel is, in my view,
anything that's
mental or physical
or both that is going
in a direction that's
opposing this sort of
linear what we call
the forward movement of time.
So if you're able to go
back mentally or physically
or both or forward mentally
or physically or both
and you're able to obtain
evidence that you have done so,
whether it's
experiential evidence
or physical evidence or both,
that would be time travel.
>>SUE: For example,
how would someone
know that they
had time traveled?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: So mental time
travel is equivalent in my view
to both memory--
literally everyone
has memory every day.
That's mental time
travel to the past--
and precognition,
which is mental time
travel to the future.
Now, precognition sounds so
much freakier than memory
because we're not used
to it, and yet it's
practically universal.
So the reason I say it's
practically universal
is because of a
statistical analysis
I did and a series of
physiological studies
showing that people's
physiology-- so their heartbeat
changes and sweats, respiration.
You can even look at EEG.
I've looked at EEG
before-- brainwaves.
There's folks who have looked at
fMRIs, so neuro-imaging stuff.
All of these measures have
shown that when you randomize--
put someone in front
of a computer screen
and you randomize
a series of images,
some of which are really
emotional and some of which
are neutral, that before
the emotional images,
physiology is
behaving differently
than before the neutral images.
And that's fairly robust.
There are several folks who
have disagreed with that result
and have talked about
why, and then we've
come out in the
literature and talked
about why their disagreements
don't make sense.
So there's a robust academic
conversation about it.
But to my knowledge, it
hasn't been knocked down
in terms of methodology.
And I'm more and more
convinced the more
I see it in myself and
others that it's real.
And the question then
becomes, what's going on,
and what can we do with it?
And I have been
studying what's going on
in the world of physics,
but I'm fascinated with,
what can we do with it?
>>SUE: Yes, that's
right where I work too,
so I'm thrilled about this.
So in all the experiments
that you've been doing,
let's get to that.
And what are the outcomes?
What is it that you're
finding in bottom line?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Bottom
line, time doesn't
work the way we think it does.
So our experience of time in
the everyday waking daily state
tends to be this
linear-- this thing
that we've been taught about
the linear movement forward.
But even that isn't true.
Even your waking
daily experience
where you think that
everything's moving forward,
you're skipping around.
You're thinking about, what
am I going to do tomorrow?
Or you're having deja vu.
Or you're having precognition.
And it just sort of
blends into the day.
So we're doing it all the time,
and that's the bottom line.
And yet there's
this taboo about it
because people are told
it's not scientific
or they're crazy if
they think they're
having these dreams, or
visions, or intuitions.
And so it's under acknowledged.
>>SUE: So what are
the data points
that you're working with?
What is it that
you're looking at?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: So it
depends on the experiment.
So if I'm working with
humans, it'll be--
let's talk about this
liver healing study.
This is a good example.
So in this study, I'm working
with a liver pathologist who
has groups of people who
have liver cirrhosis, which
is a scarring of the liver.
And he already has slides
of their liver tissue.
They've already been diagnosed
with liver cirrhosis,
but the slides have
not been scored
according to the
progression of the disease.
So they're sitting there,
but they're not scored.
Meanwhile, the person's doing
their treatment, et cetera.
The reason they
haven't been scored
is there's a new
technique for scoring that
hasn't been applied to them.
So it's not that the
doctors have been
neglectful in not scoring them.
It's that they haven't
applied this new technique
because kind of no one has.
So it's kind of the
perfect situation
for this kind of time travel.
So what we're wanting to
do in that experiment--
we're setting up to do this--
is to have groups
of individuals.
One group does a
meditation that literally
asks them to imagine going back
in time before their liver was
hurt and talking to their
liver before the cells start
to get scarred.
And the other is just a
relaxation meditation,
and we want them to do this
for 30 days, those two groups.
They all have liver cirrhosis.
So one question is, how does it
affect their future prognosis?
How do they feel
after the meditation?
Which is sort of a
mainstream question.
Do these two
different meditations
actually change the future
of these people's disease?
But another question
is, how do the slides
look when they're done with
that month, the slides that
were already taken from them
but haven't been scored?
And that's the retro causal,
the backwards time travel piece
that is super interesting.
>>SUE: So the
slides are changing?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: So let's
talk about the word change.
So there's this
idea in the field
that the past can't change
but it could be influenced.
So change suggests I'm
holding up five fingers.
And then a week from now, I do
some kind of time travel thing,
and then I'm really
holding up three fingers.
That's a change.
But influence would be
I held up three fingers
because I was being
influenced from the future.
I don't have to know it.
You see what I mean?
>>SUE: Yes, fabulous.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: And so
it's not that they've
changed it that
they've been influenced
by these future meditations.
The fact that they
hadn't been scored yet
allows that influence to happen.
If you develop a technology--
I'm calling it temporceuticals--
time-ceuticals--
a technology where in
the future you reach back
and you influence the thing
that hasn't been measured,
potentially that could work.
I just want to say,
this is a radical idea.
No one should jump up and
down and say, well, we
should all do this.
It needs to be proven.
And there is one study,
only one study out there,
that specifically tries
to do this with prayer.
And they did find
in effect a prayer
that actually
retro-casually seems
to have influenced
health outcomes
in the past in a positive way.
So these are people who
already left the hospital,
but it's influencing
their hospital stays
in ways that hadn't
been measured before.
>>SUE: So then does it serve
us to go into our future selves
and look back upon us today
and constantly be creating,
generating the ideal
self, the healed one?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah.
It serves us in both directions.
What I train people to
do with this stuff--
now the way I train
precognition--
the conscious precognition
or controlled precognition
is something I love to train
people because it shifts you
as a person, because here, I
am holding my hands like this
for a reason.
Here's your future self.
Here's your past self.
In order to do
good precognition,
you want to talk
to your future self
and say, hey, what's going on?
I mean, just tell me
what the information is.
>>SUE: Fill me in ahead of time.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Just fill me in.
And the future self has to
have a good relationship
with the past self to do that.
>>SUE: And what would it say?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: It would
say you're doing great.
I love you.
And here's some information.
But the information it
gives might not be like--
this one might be like, well,
thanks for not telling me
exactly what-- and
there's like, but you
didn't need to know that.
I'm giving you the
information you need to know.
So you'd start to develop
this powerful connection.
I feel like it's beads on
a string of all yourselves.
This relates to a
dream I once had
where all my selves
from two to 80 years old
came together inside
of me through my heart.
>>SUE: I understand.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah.
And it was just like,
all right, that's it.
It's all in there.
It's all encapsulated,
and it unfolds over time.
But it's all part of who we are.
It's very strengthening.
>>SUE: So you're living in
accordance with that there's
a guidance that's
happening in my life,
and it's my future
self or my higher self.
Someone might-- in a
spiritual conversation,
they might describe it as
this higher overseeing,
this overarching
presence that is going
to guide this life experience.
And maybe our
free-will choice is
to choose our
experience about what's
going on but that
what's going on
is always going to be in
the highest good for us.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Right,
and I'm not even
sure we choose our experience.
I think it's pretty
relaxing to assume
we don't have any
free will, but I know
I'm kind of in the minority.
>>SUE: People definitely want
to have some free-will choice.
Do you notice a difference
between men and women, older,
younger?
Is this accessible
equally to all?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah, I
notice a gender difference.
I'm super fascinated by the
gender difference stuff.
So there's the conscious
gender difference,
and then there's the
unconscious gender difference.
So the gender difference
that I'm talking about
is largely between younger
men and younger women.
After around 45, which
is the average onset
of the menopause
symptoms, men and women
become more similar,
which is why
I think there's a hormonal
component with all this.
But younger men and women tend
to go in opposite directions
on almost every precognition
task or time travel
task I give them.
And those are often unconscious.
In other words,
sometimes they don't even
know it's a precognition task.
So I'm scoring it according
to the future event,
but they don't know that.
Conscious precognition is
also super interesting.
So there's something called
controlled precognition.
What I realized is that men
really need to have this,
no, you were wrong on that.
Oh, you were right on that.
I'm not saying all men
but just on average--
a little bit more structure
around, no, you're
right and wrong.
On average, women, it's
just constant encouragement.
>>SUE: So it might be
softening the black and white
and allowing people to be
more open to this possibility
of being a little more free
than we thought we were.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Well,
there's this relationship
between the analytical mind
and the intuitive mind.
And the intuitive
mind is the one
that has this capacity to get
information from the future
and potentially to
influence the past.
And so the analytical
mind, however,
is great at keeping the
intuitive mind on task.
So you need both.
And so just having a
relationship between them where
they each do the jobs
that they're good at
rather than trying to do
the job of the other one
feels powerful to me.
>>SUE: So the idea that
consciousness is really
non-local, that we
are awareness itself.
And so we would have access
to the future and to the past,
and we have this kind of access.
And so I was just
curious about how
you're tying the past
self and the future self
together by allowing them to
communicate with each other,
allowing them all to be
part of a state of being.
And so is that relationship
directly related to time
travel as you're studying it
with your experimentation?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Cool.
Yes.
I think not only
is it related, it's
related in two ways that
are really important.
It's related in one way on
the application side, which
is if you're going to--
let's say we invent
actual physical time travel
that also includes mental time
travel.
So the whole shebang, like
the science-fiction version
where you take yourself,
your body and your memories
and your personality,
somewhere else in time.
Let's say we invent that.
So assume it's not impossible.
In a world in which we
live today, in this world,
doing that is going to
cause all sorts of problems
because it's an egoic world
that's driven by a lot of fear,
and scarcity, et cetera.
And so you can see the
problems that would emerge.
And so if you also have people
understanding more and more
around the world that there's
this unconditional love
and connection with
one's self over time
that is the most powerful
thing, more powerful than hate
or anything else--
if you have both of
those understandings,
then this time-travel
piece will be
used for something that will
be beneficial to humanity,
not just the person
who's using it.
And so that's an
application side.
But then there's
a technical side,
which is in terms of discovering
physical time travel along
with mental time travel and
really operationalizing that
in a process that really works.
I think you're actually going
to need some insights from
the consciousness
side that says, yes,
consciousness is actually
this non-local primary thing--
force, field, whatever it is--
and there's something
mathematically,
scientifically,
technically true about
how that works
that we don't quite
know yet that that's going to
give us information about how
to do the time travel.
So I think in both the
application and the technology,
I think you need
that connection.
>>SUE: And how fascinating
that unconditional love
is the melding ingredient.
It's something that is
required for the most
effective and efficient
use of time travel.
It's interesting because it
is also the most important
ingredient when someone
is truly attempting
to access higher levels of their
own consciousness, this quality
of unconditional love.
It's a vibrational frequency
that is bridging the worlds, so
to speak.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: It's
something you tap into, yes.
So my scientist's mind,
whenever someone says frequency,
always says, well,
it could be phased,
or it could be the
bandwidth, or it could
be not a wave or something.
But what we know is, it's
something we tap into.
Maybe it's a field.
Maybe it's some kind of
energetic frequency, whatever.
It's not coming from us.
It's something we can--
well, not only us-- it's
something we can tap into.
And tapping into or
accessing unconditional love
is necessary for everything.
So yeah, time travel for
sure, it seems to me.
But there's also this similarity
between unconditional love
where it's a bridging
in space between people,
but it's also a
bridging in time.
If you unconditionally
love yourself and others,
you're not going to just be
limited to this one moment
in time.
It would be at all
times and all places.
>>SUE: You're always
available and open to what
an outcome could be.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Right.
And so unconditional love
is almost another name
for time travel.
>>SUE: Yeah, interesting--
very interesting.
So can we really apply these
concepts of time travel
to heal ourselves in
real-life situations?
Barb Scholz was an engineer
living a normal life
until out of the blue
she lost her eyesight.
She was faced with the
dreadful possibility
that she would never see again.
Take a look at her story.
>>BARB SCHOLZ: Hello,
my name is Barb Scholz.
And I am here to
tell you about how
I used time shifting to heal
a condition of blindness that
came to me when I
was in my mid 40s.
I was diagnosed
with optic neuritis.
I one day could not see
out of my right eye,
and I went straight to the ER.
And what I was
told by the ER doc
is that this is the leading
indicator for MS or potentially
a brain tumor.
The doctor ordered a test to
find out what was going on--
MRIs, blood work, all
the standard stuff.
But they wanted to put me on
a very intense drug protocol
to see if they could bring
down the inflammation.
I knew those drugs
had side effects.
And I bargained with the
doctor to give me some time
to see if some of the
things that I knew how to do
could bring down
the inflammation.
And I asked, how much
time could I have?
He said, you could
have two weeks.
And I said, all right.
So I went home, and I realized
all the alternative methods
that I have learned
were sight based.
I could not do any of
them, and I was horrified.
I was in deep fear.
And then I remembered something
a meditation teacher said to me
that made no sense to
me but suddenly might
have application.
He said, the future creates the
present against the backdrop
of the past--
always felt very weird.
But I started to
realize that maybe I
could turn to a
future where none
of the things that the doctors
were talking about were there,
a future where I could see,
a future where I felt great,
a future where I was happy.
And so I started going into
meditation many, many times
a day.
Basically every time I felt
fear, I would go lie down,
and I would meditate.
So what happened is I
connected with this future
where I knew I could
see, and I knew I was OK.
And that future started to
give me a sense of how it felt.
It would abate the fears.
It would help ease the
horror of what was going on.
Now, during the time of
not being able to see,
it was fairly complete.
I had a little bit
of peripheral vision,
but I couldn't see my hands.
I couldn't see if I tried
to cross the street.
One time I saw a truck
out of one side of my eye.
And foof, it disappeared, and
it came out the other side.
So it was like I was
very dysfunctional.
And in this whole
process, the future
kept giving me this
sense of stability,
this sense of something else was
out there for me besides this.
And at two weeks I
returned to the doctor.
And even though the second eye
that was starting to go blind
was getting worse, the other
eye was getting slightly better.
And so I asked for
another two weeks.
And we had another two weeks of
working with this meditation.
And I kept working
with a future self.
And the future started
feeding me, and nourishing me,
and giving me insights,
and helping me.
And when I went
back in two weeks,
the first eye that
had gone blind
was starting to see better,
and I could make out
things on the eye test.
And he said, OK, you can
have another two weeks.
So when I went back
after another two
weeks of working with my
future self as my only tool,
I realized that both my eyes
were seeing well enough that I
could get by.
And at the end of seven
weeks, I returned to work.
But I kept working
with my future self,
and what happened is that,
knowing the emotional feelings,
I did not have to go
into meditation anymore.
If those feelings came over
me in my day-to-day life,
I would start to know, OK, I'm
about to make a choice that
takes me closer to this future.
I need to pay attention.
It was really a
mind-opening thing
to realize if I connected with
that future, where I was well,
where I could see,
I was able to get
her perspective of what
to do instead of trying
to guess how to get there.
I didn't have to make
myself feel happy.
I could go and be with
her, and feel the release,
and feel her joy,
and feel her peace.
Sometimes when we're caught
in a very hard place, if we
go to a future where we
flourish, to a future
where we actually
fulfill our destiny,
where we live our
life purpose, and just
feel the feelings
that that future has,
we have the capacity to
shift how the here and now is
because we're connected
with something
greater than this moment.
So manifesting a
different outcome
is very hard to pull
out of your bootstraps,
but it's much
easier to reach out
to a future that
has gone through it
and listen to her counsel.
One of the things that I
think is important to realize
is there is nothing
special about me.
I had a different approach.
But anybody can
work with the future
to inform the present on
how to navigate forward.
Instead of trying to always
dream it up from here
and feel uncertain, the
future is a powerful ally,
and we all have multiple,
multiple futures
we can imagine.
If we connect to that
future, it starts
to feed to us the information
of what that experience is like.
And from there,
we can create how
to navigate today
knowing that we're
headed toward that future.
So I just want to make sure that
you know you can do this too.
>>SUE: Wow.
It's a very emotional--
it's very moving just to hear
her walk someone through this.
How is someone going
to know that they're
doing what she's describing
if they were to try
to do this for themselves?
How are they going to know
this isn't just my imagination,
as people are going
to dupe themselves
by thinking something like
that, that this future self is
a real possibility for me too?
What do you recommend?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: I
recommend looking
at whether it's working.
So she had a perfect situation.
So Barb asked her doctor,
give me two weeks.
And she had a way to measure
whether it was working.
And the doctor said, OK,
you get another two weeks
and you get another two weeks
based on that it was working.
So you just look at the outcome
you kind of be a scientist.
You say, I think I'm connecting
with this future self.
Of course I can't know.
Maybe I'm fooling myself.
Let's just do it.
And we're going to see
what the outcome is.
>>SUE: For me when
I'm in that state,
it feels less pressure-some.
It feels like there's
something opening, or something
warm, or something greater.
And Barb said this,
something greater
than myself in this moment,
in this single moment,
that there's this more expanded
version of possibility.
And so inside my body
it feels that way.
Would you say that
in your experiments
that people are reporting
these things in mass
that it has that kind
of description for them?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: I want to
be careful about that
because I'm just starting
those kind of experiments.
And so I don't feel
like I can say that,
but I can't say anecdotally one
of the outcomes is right away.
One of the outcomes is
in the present moment.
So how does it feel right now?
You know that that's
saying, from the fruit you
can know the tree?
So the fruit-- if you
sit down to meditate,
or you sit down to have
one of these visualizations
and develop a relationship
with your future self
and it doesn't feel good,
you're doing something wrong.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: It really feels
good when you're connecting--
the one way in which
it can not feel good
is if you're connecting
with a fantasy future self.
Like, I've won the lottery,
and I found my true love,
and it's a week from now.
And you know, this sort of--
that doesn't feel good when you
connect with that, because it
feels so like everything has to
be different for me to be OK,
rather than I'm loving who I
am now and as who I am now,
feeling like I am
OK as I am now.
I'm connecting with
this future self
that also is a wiser,
older version of myself.
It's a different feeling.
>>SUE: Yes, so how
does Barb's story
draw a relationship
between determining
how consciousness is determining
our physical reality?
What is causal there?
How does her story reflect that?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah, so
to me, her story says,
when someone has the desire to
connect with their future self,
and get that
information, and pull--
she talks about being
fed by her future self.
That's a perfect metaphor.
Sometimes I also talk about
being pulled by the future.
There is a connection.
And it's causal in
both directions.
You're being pulled.
You're being fed.
It gets stronger and stronger.
And so much, as
she mentioned, she
didn't have to meditate
anymore, so much less effortful.
To me, that is exactly
the consciousness
that we all share and tap into
that's being then translated
into physical body.
But I kind of think
we're so biased
to think the physical
body has to produce
the consciousness that we--
I know that you're not, but
I think many people are.
And that it's hard for
people to really feel sure.
And that's OK.
You don't need to feel
sure of any of this.
I mean, there is
plenty of evidence
that your conscious
state influences
your physical health.
But you don't need to
be sure about that.
Like, this is a technique
anyone can try from in your bed.
You know, you wake
up in the morning.
And you don't even
have to be sick.
You can just want to see
how it feels to do this.
Or you could be sick.
But you wake up in
the morning and you
imagine your evening self
going to bed sending you love.
So you can introduce yourself
to your future self that way.
Just sending you love,
that's all it's doing.
And maybe it wants
to send a message.
Or maybe it doesn't.
But you just sit there and
receive the unconditional love
from your evening self.
>>SUE: The next evening?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: No, that evening.
Like, it's morning.
You wake up.
And you're like-- I mean, let's
just start with one day, right?
>>SUE: So let's say that
we wake up Monday morning.
And you're saying to have a
conversation before we even
get out of bed or connection
with our Monday-evening self.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah, start out
that way, a short time delay.
>>SUE: It doesn't have
to be words exchanged.
It can just be a
connection, that you exist.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Right,
just feeling loved.
>>SUE: That I honor you.
I acknowledge that you exist.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah, just
get to know that evening
self as if it exists right now.
It's just your evening self.
And then Monday night,
just take a moment
to send love and any
sort of information
you might want to send back
to your Monday morning self.
It's not a big deal.
This is not serious.
This can be fun, right?
>>SUE: Yes.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: You can develop
a playful relationship,
which is 1,000 times better than
a boring, serious relationship.
>>SUE: So then the
Monday evening self
is getting into bed and says,
see, Monday morning self, I
told you it was going to be OK.
Or-- right, we knew--
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah, or
wow, that was a hard day,
but you did a good job
navigating that tough stuff.
Or wow, this was amazing.
And I can't believe that things
are turning out this way.
Or you know, I just want
you to know I love you.
And you're going to do fine.
>>SUE: In your
time-travel therapies,
are you teaching
people this access?
Tell me, what are
these therapies
that you're describing.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Sort
of inventing them
as we speak-- so as usual,
for me, I invent stuff
and then go try
to figure it out.
>>SUE: Yeah, put it to test.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: It seems
like it should work.
Let's figure it out.
So one of the projects
I'm intending to work
on in the next couple of
years-- and I'm in the running
for a grant to cover
it, so we shall see--
is doing, creating time-travel
therapies that are scalable,
so essentially,
people personalizing
their own time-travel narrative.
We know in psychology--
and this will be agreed upon
by even the most mainstream
psychologists-- we
know that something
called future
orientation is important.
Future orientation is
the extent to which
you have a positive relationship
with your image of yourself
in the future.
So even wearing sunscreen
or protecting yourself
from the sun, you're
creating a relationship
with your future self, because
you're saying, in the future,
I will live.
And I will matter.
So this future orientation
impacts your education.
And it impacts your career.
It impacts your health,
your well-being.
So it's a huge--
has a huge impact on life.
And we have this major
future orientation deficit
in this country
between the people
who have high socioeconomic
status and the people
of low socioeconomic status.
So the people who have
low socioeconomic status
or who are living in
incarceration, in poverty,
dealing with abuse, or
neglect, or trauma, addiction,
even if they have high
status, if they're
dealing with any
of those things,
their future orientation is
generally, on average, lower.
And but what we
also know is, if you
improve someone's
future orientation,
their life improves.
So it can be changed.
So what I want to do is
scale time-travel therapies,
that essentially allow people to
mentally travel into the future
at different durations, a
day, then a couple days, then
a week, then a couple weeks,
then a month, then a couple
of months, to slowly extend and
strengthen that relationship
with the future self among
the people who need it most.
So I'm super excited about that.
>>SUE: Tell us a little bit more
about these temporceuticals.
Just.
Break it down for us.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah,
temporceuticals-- well,
I was sitting with the staff
of the Institute of Noetic
Sciences, the
science team there.
And we were brainstorming.
And I forget who came
up with the idea of,
the name temporceuticals.
But it means like
pharmaceuticals,
except you're not using
drugs to cause change.
You're using time.
And especially for
conditions where
you don't have a
lot of time upfront,
like traumatic brain injury,
or stroke, or these things
that are sudden, it
seems to me that those
are ripe for creating
temporceuticals.
If we could get it to work that,
OK, fine, you had a stroke.
You're in the hospital.
Things are happening.
But you have hours after that
to go back in time and influence
things, if we could actually
pull that off, those conditions
could be much less devastating.
And the other piece of that that
I think is sort of fascinating
is that, if you
measure everything,
someone comes into the hospital,
they've had a traumatic brain
injury, and you
measure everything
like you're supposed
to, by this logic,
you're not going to be to
change those measurements.
So the question
becomes, is there
a way to not maybe
measure everything?
Measure the things
you absolutely
need to measure, but maybe
leave some wiggle room?
I mean, so these are the
kind of things I'm studying.
Like, could you leave a little
wiggle room in the measurements
so that things can change?
And it's just--
Barb Scholz, in that video,
was talking about this,
about that time of I didn't--
I wanted them to
not find something,
because then there is
something to work with.
It's not knowing.
>>SUE: Yes, I've done
this myself with injuries.
I broke my arm.
And I didn't want
to go and da-da-da,
so I started doing similar
therapies internally, and just
working with knowing
that this was
happening, that this
healing was happening.
And I took an x-ray
weeks later to make sure
that the bone callus was
there and everything was fine,
but in that moment,
I just knew--
and not that we're
making suggestions
that you don't go and receive
traditional care, et cetera.
Do what you have to do.
But in the same
moment, know that we
are powerful beyond what we
have traditionally been trained.
And science is now
validating for us
that there are other ways of
approaching these things that
allow us to land in a
much more empowered state
and in a much more continual
self-healing state, et cetera.
So let's take a look
at the next 10 years.
What's going to happen?
In this temporceuticals
world, what are we
going to be disseminating?
What's going to be known?
What are people going
to have access to?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Well, I
think the big shift--
let's assume
temporceuticals happen,
and they work, and
people are starting
to get it about connecting
with themselves in the future.
When I think about that,
it gets me really excited.
But one of the things
I really think about it
is, it necessarily brings
in this strengthening
of the individual.
So any sort of
cultural tradition
that's around, that the
individual is weak and needs
to go out to the store and buy
lots of things to feel better,
is going to dissipate,
because if you kind of get it
that you don't have
to have everything
all right at this particular
moment, at some point
you might have some things,
at some point you have others,
and that's still you, the
desire to go out and buy
a bunch of things
kind of goes away.
So that's a huge shift I
think people would see.
The other piece is the
increase in the scaling
of unconditional
love, the experience
of unconditional love, because
once you start connecting over
time like this, the
only way to connect
with your future self
or your past self
is through this
unconditional love.
If you are connecting
critically, you won't connect.
If you're trying to connect
critically, you don't connect.
And so that scaling of
unconditional love is--
I think that will
shift our world.
And I really, I'm creating
a nonprofit actually focused
on both time travel
and unconditional love
called TILT, The Institute
for Love and Time.
And it's just a new organization
that I'm birthing right now.
But it's really
focused on this idea,
that that's the shift
that we can create.
>>SUE: So we know this
possibility is existing.
And we're trying to
encourage ourselves
to be good in the void,
good in the not knowing.
And yet we also are in a
culture that says, you're sick.
You go to the doctor.
They're going to measure you.
They're going to take
all kinds of measurements
for all kinds of data to give
you some kind of feedback
as to your current status.
And I mean, my
question is, do you
think that we're actually kind
of interfering when we yank
somebody out of
that void, and we
plop them into all these
measurements and all
this diagnosis, and taking
this family history,
and doing all these
things that are getting us
into that analytical state?
What's the balance there?
How do we know that we're taking
a responsible balanced approach
to accessing our
own power to heal,
and being responsible with our
newly found interest in being
a self-healer, and living
in a safe manner there?
What do you see?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: You know, I see
that doctors, our MDs and DOs,
they're our partners in healing.
Naturopaths, they're
all partners in healing.
And so if you're
going to see a doctor
you trust and they do these
measurements, let them do them,
because what we can
have faith in is
that medical science hasn't
thought of everything yet.
So like in the
liver-healing study
where the kind of
staining for those slides
hasn't been well used
because it's new,
some kind of measure that hasn't
yet been invented at the time
that you got measured
can be the one
that changes retro-causally.
So I think, don't
worry about it,
just that medical
science isn't going
to be as exhaustive
as you think it is.
Or these tests are going to
take a long time to come back.
Like, the 10-day waiting
period, during that 10 days,
now you have this time.
So there is that part of myself
says, oh no, in 50 years,
are we going to say
we were hurting people
by making these measurements
and not using time travel
therapies to fix them first?
I think maybe, but I doubt it.
I think probably
more likely, we're
going to realize that
there is always something
that hasn't been measured.
At the last minute
you could say,
you know, your
spine was severed,
all these horrible things.
This is the way the x-ray looks.
It's a disaster.
But it turns out
they didn't measure
this one particular
portion of your spine.
There is always something
that's incomplete and can
be influenced.
>>SUE: Or they didn't measure
this other part of you
that is actually the
healer within that's going
to allow for this to unfold.
It's all unfolding--
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Absolutely
>>SUE: --in right time,
yeah, in perfect order.
So what about negative side
effects or other applications
of this temporceuticals idea?
I'm all in with this, but what
if someone that's watching
is afraid of stepping out
of this present moment,
because I've never really
thought about this so much?
I mean, our viewers are very
open, and very interested,
and very bright people who are
taking charge of their lives
in so many wonderful ways.
And at the same time, we
want to address any concerns
that they might have about
what about stepping out
of this present moment, going to
the future, going to the past?
Is there any kind
of negative side
effect of doing that
you've seen at all?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: I want to say, no.
But as a scientist,
I have to say,
there has got to be something.
The thing that I think of--
I mean, it seems so
positive for most people
when they're noticing
that they're having
a positive experience doing it.
And I think that's the key.
I think that, for some
people, if they're not
having a positive experience
doing it, that's a sign.
Like, don't do it.
Maybe do do it, but
do it differently.
So maybe that's a sign
that what you are doing
isn't right for
you, but maybe there
is a way to do it differently.
Usually those are
cases of where there
is such a big
imagined difference
between the present moment
and this future self.
Like, you're fantasizing
about this future self so much
better.
So there is a lack of self-love
and self-acknowledgment
that right now is OK, too.
>>SUE: It could make one feel
more compressed or depressed
in this present moment if this
future self is so radically
different.
You know, I, when I'm
working with students
in my coursework, et cetera,
I'm saying, you know,
when in doubt, default to love.
Just love more.
If you start to
feel fear, you start
to feel uncomfortable
about something,
just drop into this
self-loving state,
or just being present
with yourself,
that it that it generates
the vibration, the energetic
that we're looking for for this
to have a beneficial effect,
no matter what.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah,
I've never seen--
OK, so I don't know about you.
I'm not a doctor.
I've never seen a negative
side effect of love.
I've just never seen that.
You know, the person
may die, but if they're
experiencing love, that's
still a positive thing.
>>SUE: Yeah, it's a
pleasant transition
in the influence of love.
Speaking of love, love banking--
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah.
>>SUE: Talk to us.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: One of
my favorite things.
I like to make up new
terminology, as you can tell.
>>SUE: Yeah, that's a good one.
They can check their love bank,
make a deposit in my love bank.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah, open
my checking account.
That's exactly what it is.
So it's super simple.
It's this idea that, in
those times in your life
when you feel like you have
extra resources-- you know,
some days you just wake
up and you're like, wow,
it's a great day.
I feel like I have
extra resources.
I have extra energy.
Things feel like
they're going well.
I'm enjoying whatever the
universe is offering me today--
to take a moment and
say, like, great,
now I'm going to do a
little love banking.
I started doing this in my 40s.
That's how I ended up at the
bedside of my childhood self,
because I was like, great.
I have a little extra energy.
I'm going to go and
sit there and be with--
so what you do is, you
imagine time like fabric,
like a fabric of space time.
And you sort of put a flag
in the present moment.
This is my present moment
of awesome experience.
I feel great.
And then you sort of
put a flag in the past
where you had a hard time
and you could use some love.
And you imagine a
love bank up here.
And you sort of say,
I'm going to put some--
I'm making a deposit
into the love bank.
So any time, but maybe
especially this time
where the flag is, anytime
can withdraw from that bank
when it's needed.
And so you don't have to
worry about this part,
because this will get done.
And just give yourself
that permission.
You just do this deposit.
And then later, the next day you
wake up and you're like, wait,
everything is the same, but I
feel horrible, as we often do.
You wake up.
And now I don't like my day.
And then you go, oh, I'm
withdrawing from the love bank.
And you just keep doing that.
And it continues
not only to create
a relationship between
your selves in time,
but it also evens out your days.
>>SUE: Right, you have extra,
you put it up in the bank.
You have a deficit, you
draw down from the bank.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah,
it's your love.
>>SUE: Uploading, yes.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: And
you can trust it.
And that's just for
people who have been
abused as children or whatever.
It's a big deal to
have someone's love
that you can trust.
And if you get to
the point where
you can trust yourself to do
that, that's hugely healing.
Then you start to trust others.
>>SUE: So tell us about the
book that you're writing
about all of these topics.
Just share.
I know people are going to
be so fascinated and very
interested to learn
more, read more.
Just speak to us
about your book.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: OK, great.
So the working title is
"Practical Time Travel
for Everyday Mystics,"
which just came to me.
>>SUE: For everyday--
>>MOSSBRIDGE: For
everyday mystics.
>>SUE: Mystics, fabulous, great.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Right, and
so I'm working on it now.
And it'll be both
stories like the kinds
that we've talked about
here, about people doing
this kind of practical time
travel to work with a problem,
or help heal themselves in the
past, or influence the future,
however that is.
But it will also go into
the science more deeply.
And by the time the
book is written,
I think I'll have the
results of both the liver--
or be well on the way to the
results of the liver study
as well as this
study with groups
of people in support groups
that are dealing with addiction,
and trauma,
incarceration, poverty,
and helping them do these
time-travel narratives.
So it'll be coming at
it from all angles.
In other words, the
goal of the book
is to introduce to the
United States and the rest
of the world this idea
of time-travel therapies
in a scientific, fun,
accessible context for people
who are interested in other
ways of looking at things
and other ways of healing.
>>SUE: And this is on
every level of their life?
Healing mentally,
healing emotionally,
healing physically,
healing spiritual crises--
all of it is addressable by
what you're speaking about.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: I think so.
>>SUE: Will the book have
practical applications?
You know, break it down for
people, do some of this.
And try some of this.
And here are some
therapies that have been--
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah,
I want to have
an appendix that has all
that, just examples of,
just here is a meditation.
Try this.
Personalize this for yourself,
just so people could do it.
But also, if it's in
the text of the book,
it will get filed as
self-help rather than science.
It will reach a
different audience--
so appendix.
>>SUE: Interesting.
Yes, well wonderful,
as long as it's there.
I know our viewers are
going to be interested in,
OK, show me what to do.
That's where we
break it down to.
So how can people find out
more information from you?
How can they find more now?
>>MOSSBRIDGE: One
of the best places
to find out what I'm doing
is to go to my organization,
mossbridgeinstitute.com.
And I have multiple
organizations and projects
that kind of feed off of there.
But if you sign up for the
newsletter, periodically,
not very often,
maybe every couple
of months I send out a like,
this is what I'm doing,
are you interested
kind of email.
>>SUE: Fabulous.
Thank you so much for the work
that you're doing in the world.
It's this kind of
thinking outside
of the box that is
so necessary for us
to evolve as we truly
are meant to be evolving,
and to be the true
healers that we each are.
Your work is fascinating.
And I'm thrilled.
Thank you so much for spending
some time with us today.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Thank you.
>>SUE: Hundreds of
years ago, humans
understood radical
healing as miraculous,
but now we are
beginning to understand
that each phenomena is not
only scientifically possible,
but also is a stepping
stone in a paradigm shift
in consciousness in healing.
Dr. Mossbridge suggests that
in the not too distant future,
practical time travel
may be an effective tool
for our wellness,
mind, body, and spirit.
I'm Dr. Sue Morter.
And thank you for
watching "Healing Matrix."